# Contemporary Issues In Data

Welcome! Your writing assignment will be in this file.  See [the instructions](./instructions.md) for more details.

CS60 Database Design, Kellen Huang, N17735638

# Interesting shows in Modern Stock Market
This document will discuss two articles about the controversy over GME stock posted on The NYTimes with the buyer’s and an analyst’s case scenario perspectives.  

## Article 1 [What Is GameStop, the Company, Really Worth? Does It Matter?](https://www.nytimes.com/2021/02/01/business/gamestop-how-much-worth.html)
Big Data companies, combined with analytics technologies, have recorded stock transactions in order to analyze the entire market behaviors. The article, _What Is GameStop, the Company, Really Worth? Does It Matter?_ by Kellen Browning, has pointed out that the Company’s actual financial situation, GameStop, does not correlate with its current stock market changes. The stock market price usually changes with its earnings base and its expected growth in the earnings base. However, due to the outspread of the COVID pandemic, physical stores such as GameStop face huge challenges and significantly decline revenue. The article summarizes the current situation with the GameStop stock: people buy GME stocks unusually and make the stock price reach $347.51 per share on Jan. 27th, 2021. “ Wall Street analysts, on average, don’t expect the company to become profitable until its fiscal year that ends January 2023, when they think it will earn a profit of $1.12 per share. GameStop’s stock trades at over 200 times those estimated profits. The equivalent valuation for Walmart is a far cheaper 23 times.”(Browning, What Is GameStop) 

GameStop’s stock price has changed like a roller coaster. Today is February 3rd, 2021, and GME stock price is now $88.88 per share. There are a lot of things that happened in the past week. Robinhood has closed stock trades for AMC, NOKIA, and GameStop for a day and then reopened them with three times higher purchasing requirements. The stock itself has two local peaks on the 27th and 29th for prices over $300 per share, but it drops dramatically. I agree with the author that “GameStop may be an extreme example of market exuberance,” but the stock regulation actions made by the officials are also questionable. “‘Reasonable minds can disagree whether GameStop is worth $30 or zero,’ said Michael Pachter, a stock analyst at Wedbush Securities who has followed GameStop for nearly two decades. ‘But not $200 to $300.’” In other words, this is not the usual market phenomenon, but it is happening right now. It is so much fun to watch the show over the internet. 

## Article 2 [A 10-Year-Old GameStop Investor Cashed In. His Return? Over 5,000%.](https://www.nytimes.com/2021/01/30/business/gamestop-stock-profit.html)

In the article, _A 10-Year-Old GameStop Investor Cashed In. His Return? Over 5,000%_, the author, Christina Morales, has shared Jaydyn Carr’s story, a 10-year-old boy who made $3,200 on ten shares from GameStop. This article narrates the story from the perspective of a GME stock buyer. This entire article wants to promote the idea of teaching children financial literacy early in life. Jaydyn Carr’s mother opens publically to support his son’s interests in amateur day trading. The article also points out the economic gap is huge and the debt cycle that existed in the African-American community. In recent news, it is for sure that Jaydyn Carr has made the correct decision to sell the stocks at $320 per share. The price of the stock has dropped dramatically after that. 

Jaydyn Carr is a lucky case in stock investment. In general, investment in stocks has a high risk of losing money due to the market’s fluidity. The story in the article is possible to show a survivor bias. People who bought GME stocks after the specific dates may lose a considerable amount of money. It is excellent to cultivate children’s financial literacy awareness, but people must learn more about how stocks work in general, not investing blindly. I agree that news websites are trying to manipulate people’s thoughts over events happening around the world. They can sometimes be misleading, especially since most of the news will not show us the exact data they are using. They can interpret that piece of data in their favor. 

